# MachineLearn
Compare the performance of multiple binary classification models in high-throughput sequencing datasets
The development of machine learning and deep learning provided solutions for predicting microbiota response on environmental change based on microbial high-throughput sequencing. However, there were few studies specifically clarifying the performance and practical of two types of binary classification models to find a better algorithm for the microbiota data analysis. Here, for the first time, we evaluated the performance, accuracy and running time of the binary classification models built by three machine learning methods — random forest (RF), support vector machine (SVM), logistic regression (LR), and one deep learning method — back propagation neural network (BPNN). The built models were based on the microbiota datasets that removed low-quality variables and solved the class imbalance problem. Additionally, we optimized the models by tuning. Our study demonstrated that dataset pre-processing was a necessary process for model construction, and BPNN and RF were the most suitable methods for constructing microbiota binary classification models. Among these 4 binary classification models, BPNN showed the highest accuracy and the most robust performance, while the RF method was ranked second. We also constructed the optimal models by adjusting the epochs of BPNN and the n_estimators of RF for many times. The evaluation related to performances of models provided a road map for the application of artificial intelligence to assess microbial ecology.
